[THEME MUSIC]
>>THERESA CHEUNG: The
fact that you dream shows
that you are a psychic being.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Yeah.
>>CHEUNG: Even if the dream is
just nonsense or nightmarish,
I'm just so happy
because I think,
I haven't given up on me.
Keep a dream journal,
please, everyone.
It really is the
most sensational book
you will ever read.
>>REGINA: It's pretty amazing.
>>CHEUNG: You can
influence your unconscious.
You are influencing what
you believe about yourself.
We're all so interesting,
every person,
and dreamwork
reminds them, there's
so much that lies beneath.
It's being shown that
time and time again,
the dreaming mind
just seems to sense
what's coming in the future.
But it's not
necessarily an event.
It's an emotion.
People who are observed when
doing a task perform better.
You are being observed all the
time by your future memory.
>>REGINA: One of the silver
linings of the pandemic
is that people were cloistered
at home sleeping longer hours.
As a result, dream
research exploded.
People were having
powerful dreams
and remembering them
because they didn't have
to be at work the next morning.
One person that became really
hot in demand at that time
was Theresa Cheung,
author of countless books
on dreams and intuition.
We're going to talk
about both today.
>>CHEUNG: Hello, Regina.
>>REGINA: Welcome back.
And I mentioned the pandemic
when I was introducing you.
So you say that there
was an explosion of it.
Also, a kind of
dominant theme to dreams
that was happening at
this time, as researchers
were really taking
on dream time.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, it was
unprecedented for dream
research.
>>REGINA: Makes sense.
You don't have an alarm clock.
You don't have to hurry.
You have time to loll
and remember your dreams.
It makes perfect sense.
>>CHEUNG: Absolutely.
And you're getting more REM,
rapid eye movement, sleep,
which is the stage
most dream happens,
and you've got slower mornings,
so you can mull over them.
And dreams, of course,
during the pandemic
were doing what
they do best, which
is try to help make sense
of a crazy new situation
that we were all dealing with.
>>REGINA: And so, what was
the nature of those dreams?
>>CHEUNG: A lot of them
were unfinished tasks,
feeling threatened.
That was a big, big theme.
But we've got to
remember also that this
was a global event
where people were
reporting dreaming globally.
And this has not
happened before.
Now, after a big event that
shook the world like 9/11,
it was reported in America.
But this was the
first time globally,
and you have to look at social
media playing a part in that.
And that people
were posting online.
And so COVID dreams,
lockdown dream phenomenon
started to become key words
that people kept on typing in.
And it just exploded.
And then you got
Harvard University,
"British Medical Journal"
publishing studies showing,
yes, people are having these
really bizarre, vivid dreams.
And for me, forgive
the pun, I do
love saying this-- it was a
dream come true because I've
devoted my life to writing
about dreams, and trying to say,
they are important.
They matter.
And all the research right now
is showing that sleep and dream
researchers are showing
that dreams can really
help you evolve, learn about
yourself, regulate your mood,
be cathartic, and potentially,
also, be your inner psychic,
sense the future.
And I'm kind of--
>>REGINA: Your inner therapist?
You save a little
money there, perhaps?
>>CHEUNG: I think
it's the same thing.
And a therapist and a psychic,
they're interchangeable for me
because they're both your
unconscious trying to help
you understand yourself better.
>>REGINA: So what about the
notion of non-linear time?
Because sometimes,
people get tripped up
over the timing and sequence
of things in dreams.
And you and I were
talking a month or so ago
about the notion that if we
can truly accept that time
itself is non-linear,
then dreams can
take a new role in our lives.
>>CHEUNG: Absolutely.
In the dream state, you
transcend time and space.
You step outside that.
And precognitive dreams
offer evidence of that.
You can travel anywhere.
Be any time.
There isn't any real concept
of time in a dream at all.
And yes, it's right.
At the moment, in
quantum physics,
there's considerable debate
about the nature of time.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: What is it?
And there is a school of thought
that past, present, and future
are happening simultaneously--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>CHEUNG: --and
that our minds just
have linear time because
that's the only way
we can make sense of
it in our human form.
I love this idea.
I absolutely love this idea.
And in the dream state,
you can connect to it.
A kind of a long self,
your long body over time
that is you in all ages
and stages of your life,
and if you believe in life
after death, if you believe
in reincarnation, as well.
So yeah, this is
absolutely fascinating.
And I think the
dream state, you can
tap into that, this
understanding of yourself
as being bigger than
the here and now,
and existing all
aspects of yourself.
I mean, it's in its infancy
at the moment, this research.
But it is stunning, and I'm so
excited to be championing it.
>>REGINA: So with
precognitive dreaming,
you're talking about that being
the holy grail for millennia.
Kings and queens hiring
dreamers and seers,
bringing them into the court to
get a fix on what's coming up,
what's going to happen.
Military leaders
looking at precognitive
dreams to get an advantage
in a strategic war situation.
So that's always kind
of been the holy grail
of dreaming is the
precognitive portion of it.
So let's focus on
that for a little bit.
Because off camera, when
you're having your makeup,
you told us a funny
story about waking up,
and you were ready to go
on ITV in England, right?
And was it the morning show?
>>CHEUNG: It was, yes.
>>REGINA: The morning
show, and you had a dream.
>>CHEUNG: Well, I had
a dream that I was
being handed some pink daisies.
And I always tell people
that I do dreamwork with,
that you pay attention
to your dreams,
because your dreams want
to be taken seriously.
So if a color appears
in your dream,
wear that color the next day,
to show your dreaming mind
that you're taking note.
So I decided-- because I
was going to wear green.
I was going to be
a vision in green.
But I decided, no,
I've had this dream.
It was very strong
pink theme there.
I'm going to wear pink.
So I went in, and did
the call in for the UK
that I do where viewers call
into ITV "This Morning."
It's one of their most loved
entertainment and news shows.
It runs five days a
week in the morning.
And I've been their regular
dream expert for a while now.
So I went in, in hot pink,
which is not really, really me.
And it was amazing because
they decided that day
to trail the Barbie movie.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: And they
had a Barbie--
>>CHEUNG: I had a Barbie box.
>>REGINA: And you got to
pose in the Barbie box.
I mean, this is all
perfectly in your pink.
This is really cute.
>>CHEUNG: It made me so
happy because in my dream
is what I was being given
pink daisies by a child.
And Barbie, it's all about
nostalgia, childhood.
A lot of children
played with Barbie.
And I got the experience.
I said to the producer,
can I just go in the box?
So I just went in the
box because they had it
there in preparation for the
movie, and I went inside.
>>REGINA: And you got
to be the Barbie doll.
>>CHEUNG: I did.
I got a dream come true.
Now you could say that's all
very trivial and nonsense,
and what's the point of that?
But what it is, it's
just a wake-up call
that your dreaming mind
knows things, right?
And it's a power point--
>>REGINA: Beyond
time and space, yeah.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, and it's
a kind of a power point.
It's just saying,
Theresa, there's
something I know that
you need to know.
And this is an important
moment for you.
It's also a moment of self-care
and to do something that's fun.
Because sometimes, in my work,
it can get very, very serious.
I work with a lot of
people who are not
dealing with their nightmares
and their shadow side.
And it was just a moment
of laughter and pure joy,
and the reaction I
got because of it.
And it was because
I followed my dream.
And I tell people, follow
your dream-- within reason.
Because sometimes,
dreams are insane,
and that's where we need to
talk about how to interpret
your dreams, which again,
I've devoted my life
to helping people understand.
>>REGINA: You have.
How many books have
you written on dreams?
>>CHEUNG: I'm a serial--
>>REGINA: Dozens.
You're a serial
writer, goodness.
>>CHEUNG: I've got two more
coming out next year, as well.
I feel blessed.
>>REGINA: Well, I just
want to go ahead and stay
on the subject for one
moment, more about color.
It's the same thing.
When people do their
vision boards or whatever,
if you're doing it in a
way where you're really
tapping into the
unconscious, then you'll
find, oftentimes, if
you've done a board,
that it'll pop up in any
given year with a color theme.
Same thing in dreams can happen.
Because that frequency
is-- usually,
some frequency, that
color frequency band
is something needed
by your being
for healing on some level.
And like you said,
you needed to bring it
out this childlike
playful side of yourself.
You couldn't have been wearing
a better color than pink
for that to do that show.
>>CHEUNG: It was
what it was saying.
>>REGINA: You didn't know it was
going to be in that background.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, you're
absolutely right.
And I always say, when
a color appears strongly
in someone's dream, go research
all the spiritual associations
with it, the mystical
associations,
and see what it's
got to teach you.
Because every single dream
has a message for you.
Every single dream--
>>REGINA: Everything
is frequency, too.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's all about that.
>>REGINA: It's a feeling,
or a tone of the way someone
said something,
something or a color,
it's all important
subtle information.
>>CHEUNG: And it
was interesting,
you know, you were
drawing the conversation
to precognitive dreaming,
which, back in time,
that was how dreams
were interpreted.
We've got "Joseph
and the Dreamcoat."
And then dream interpretation
went through various stages.
It became more
psychological and self-help,
which is where I'm still at.
A lot of my work is with that.
But what's happened now is
it's kind of swung back.
And there is a growing
body of research
into precognitive dreaming,
research done by scientists.
And they're beginning to show
that this is the norm, not
the exception.
That a lot of people
are having dreams
that two or three days
later, they have a déjá vu--
or it should be déjá révé,
which is a dream remembered.
And it's a stunning
moment when that happens.
Often, it is very trivial,
like my pink daisy dream.
And you think,
what is the point?
Why won't my dreaming mind
do something much more
dramatic for me and helpful?
But what it is, it's
just a moment for you
to stop and reflect,
and understand
that there's more to
you than meets the eye,
that you are more than
your body and your mind.
You are not your thoughts.
You are not your emotions.
There's a part of you that
exists independent of that
and sees the bigger picture.
And it's just really a
beautiful goosebumpy moment.
I love that term, goosebumps.
>>REGINA: So déjá vu
is simply something
you have already dreamt and
experienced in dream time.
>>CHEUNG: It's déjá révé.
>>REGINA: Yes, déjá révé.
So you're just
remembering it as it's now
playing out, timeline-wise, in
what appears to be the present.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's just a wow moment.
And we all need those wow
moments, because sometimes,
life is tough.
And I know when I'm
going through rough times
or things aren't working out,
and I wake up in the morning
and I've got a dream on my
mind, I just feel so happy.
Even if the dream is just
nonsense or nightmarish,
I'm just so happy,
because I think,
I haven't given up on me.
There's something there.
My unconscious is
trying to talk to me.
So I write it down, and it
gives me great sustenance
during the day and in
the days that come.
Because I can go and
refer back, and say,
what was my unconscious
trying to tell me?
I have got my own back.
There's something
I need to know.
And I will carry on
decoding and decoding it
until I get that aha
moment of illumination.
But also, you've got to do your
dreams in a series, not just
one dream.
Because sometimes, one dream is
just, I don't understand this.
Tune in the following--
>>REGINA: Yeah--
>>CHEUNG: --night.
>>REGINA: --right.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, tune
in the following night
for the next thrilling
installment of you.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>CHEUNG: And just keep on.
Keep a dream journal,
please, everyone
listening to this interview.
It really is the
most sensational book
you will ever read.
>>REGINA: It's
pretty amazing when
you go back, especially years
later, and look at things
and think, oh, my God.
Because sometimes,
what it's showing
you takes a long time to
play out in real life, too.
>>CHEUNG: It does.
>>REGINA: And then you see
what that was all about.
And not that you could have
changed it in the moment,
but it's very interesting
to see it was already
in the works in that
moment, and may take time
to manifest in our dimension.
>>CHEUNG: I mean, I
kept a dream journal
since I was very young,
because I grew up
in a family of traveling
spiritualists and dream
decoding, and astrology was our
life, and psychic abilities,
or whatever.
So it's something that was just
in me, keep a dream journal,
because we talk
about our dreams.
They matter.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that's so wonderful
to do it as a family practice.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: How fun would that be,
and how revealing as a family
to each other?
I think that's a great thing, as
soon as little kids can write,
to have them start
talking about it
and write a few
little notes for them.
>>CHEUNG: Well, I found when my
kids were teenagers, as well--
and you know teenagers,
they do distance themselves.
And I could get very
intimate with them
and have a wonderful connection
when I-- they would come to me
to talk about their dreams.
Because that was a kind of
like a safe way for them,
and we could talk.
I loved it.
Their own life, they needed
to find out who they were.
They want a distance from mom,
of course, that's growing up.
But it was wonderful, because
I would go for the dream talk.
I am on a mission to get
everybody dream journaling,
to fall in love with themselves
through their dreaming mind.
And it does happen.
I've seen people's
lives transform.
It's interesting what you're
talking about skill practicing
in the dream state.
And also, it's threat
rehearsal, as well.
Sometimes, people
say, well, why do
I have so many anxious
dreams and nightmares?
It's because you're
dreaming mind takes you
to the worst-case scenario.
So that you've
been there before.
You've survived.
>>REGINA: Helping prepare you.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, it's
threat rehearsal.
>>REGINA: But see,
a lot of people
don't want to write
their dreams down
because they don't
want to bring back
into view nightmares and
uncomfortable things.
It's like, no, leave that alone.
I think a lot of people
avoid it for that reason.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
But you have to face your fears.
And this is shadow work
we're talking about here,
which is very important.
Because if you
repress and deny what
is disturbing and
troubling you, it's
going to erupt in
some unhealthy way.
>>REGINA: I agree.
I think it's a good idea.
>>CHEUNG: And dreamwork
is a very safe way
to explore your shadow
side, because it's a dream.
And you can't harm yourself
in the dream state.
>>REGINA: You're not
going to hit the bottom
and be dead at the
end of the dream.
>>CHEUNG: You can write
down your nightmare,
and then you can do this
wonderful technique called
rescripting nightmares.
And studies have been
done to show this works.
If you're having recurring
nightmares, for example,
in the day, close your eyes,
re-enter that nightmare,
visualize it, see it,
and then re-script it.
Turn monsters into butterflies.
And what you're
doing there is you're
telling your unconscious,
look, hey, I'm in charge here.
I'm not a helpless victim.
And when you can start
letting your unconscious know
that you can shape
it, that's when
the magic starts to happen.
You start understanding that
you are the power of choice
in your life.
Things don't happen to you.
Nightmares don't happen to you.
Life doesn't happen to you.
You do have a certain
ability to manage it,
and it's exactly the
same with your dreams.
If you can influence
your unconscious,
you are influencing what
you believe about yourself.
Now, again, this isn't
repressing or denying
what's ugly and toxic,
because we all have that.
It is day and night,
it's all in us.
It is understanding it's there.
I'm going to
understand it, but I'm
going to choose not to
indulge it in waking life.
But if you can influence
your unconscious,
you can influence your
beliefs about yourself.
And as we all know,
what you believe
about yourself is who
you are, and who you are
is what you attract.
And dreamwork is one of the
most neglected manifesting tools
out there.
>>REGINA: Totally.
>>CHEUNG: It really is.
Because if you can start
understanding your dreams,
looking at what your
unconscious is reflecting
to you every night, you will
get a real understanding
of why, perhaps, you
are not manifesting
what you want in your life.
And you're doing all
your affirmations,
and you're meditating for hours,
but your dreams don't lie.
They take you
right to the truth.
But they do it in this
very surreal, symbolic way.
And that's where people fall
down, because they think,
I just don't understand.
>>REGINA: Well,
that's the thing, too.
With symbolism, so much
of it is so individual.
And how do they learn the
keys to their own symbolism,
versus going to a dream
book where a goose always
means something, the
same thing for everybody.
It doesn't.
>>CHEUNG: I've written
a dream dictionary,
which I'm blessed
it's been in print--
>>REGINA: Is that
the "A to Z" book?
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
It's a bible.
>>CHEUNG: It's been reissued
again, and again, and again.
And I do there the
universal interpretation.
For example, a cross,
for most people,
it's a symbol of religion.
I do the colors, I do the
numbers, I do as many animals
as I can.
Clothes, nudity, cheating,
all these really common dream
things.
Teeth falling out, hair
falling out, flying, falling,
monsters, et cetera, apocalypse.
I give the common
interpretation.
But I always tell people,
the very first interpretation
you go for is your
own gut instinct.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CHEUNG: You will know--
>>REGINA: Because
that symbol may
be something positive
for one person,
and a very fearful
negative for another.
Yeah.
>>CHEUNG: Go for your own
personal interpretation first.
If nothing comes through,
go for the first word.
That's free association.
Nothing comes through, then
move to all the symbolic,
and universal,
and common things,
and see what triggers
something in you.
>>REGINA: See your
emotional response to it.
>>CHEUNG: Something
will resonate.
It will be your
emotional response.
Because the language
of dreams is emotion.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CHEUNG: So it will be your
emotional response, and then
just work with that.
And don't be in a rush
to have-- everybody
wants instant solutions.
Part of the joy of
life is the puzzle.
We all want to solve ourselves.
Find out who we are.
But that's not why we're here.
We're here to experience
all facets of ourselves
in all these beautifully
complicated ways.
We're all so interesting.
Every person is a story with
so many facets to themselves.
And dreamwork reminds them
that they are infinite.
They're fascinating.
There's so much
that lies beneath.
Don't try and solve yourself.
Just enjoy being an enigma.
>>REGINA: Enjoy the mystery.
Enjoy not knowing.
A lot of people want to know.
They want certainty.
And in fact, there is really
nothing that's certain.
>>CHEUNG: It's the adventure.
>>REGINA: I agree.
>>CHEUNG: And I was doing
it actually on the plane,
because I had a
lot of plane time.
For you, anything,
because you-- by the way,
thank you for having me.
I'm so overjoyed to be here.
>>REGINA: --going
through all that.
>>CHEUNG: But I was
closing my eyes,
and all these beautiful shapes
were forming behind my eyes,
as they tend to do when it's
dark, and you close your eyes.
And I was thinking, this
looks like a starry night.
When you close your
eyes, behind your eyes,
it does little bits of light.
And we all try to go to
outer space for adventure.
People go to the moon.
But it's that inner space--
>>REGINA: That's
what we're composed--
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: --of,
those teensy sparks
in the vast sea of openness.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
>>REGINA: The void.
Those tiny, tiny sparks
are our atomic reality.
>>CHEUNG: Exactly.
>>REGINA: That's all we are.
>>CHEUNG: And every
time you close
your eyes, behind your eyes, it
is where you should be seeking.
And if you do feel lost,
and life's difficult,
please remember, you have
to be lost before you
can start finding your way.
There's nothing wrong
with being lost.
In fact, it's often, when you're
lost, out of your comfort zone,
going through pain
and trauma, that's
when the learning and
the wisdom happens.
And you start valuing what
really matters in your life.
And it is so sad that
these days, so many people
have externalized everything.
That their happiness comes
from their career, how
they look, how popular
they are, the mark
they make on the world.
Now, that's important.
We're here on this Earth to
learn through human experience.
But what's missing
is the balance.
You need both.
You need the material
lessons, but you also
need the intuitive, and the
creative, and the dreamy.
And that's where dreamwork is
such an instantly accessible
way to bring that balance--
>>REGINA: I agree--
>>CHEUNG: --back into your life.
>>REGINA: --but it's
been totally invalidated
by academia and the rest of
the world now for, what, 200,
300 years.
So people have to start
reclaiming it, and just saying,
look, I don't have to cave to
what is considered societally
acceptable anymore.
And fortunately, we're
in an era now where
it's getting better and better.
But a lot of people, if
you even 10 years ago,
20 years ago, if you went to
your family in the morning,
oh, I just had
this amazing dream.
It's like, ugh,
there she goes again.
>>CHEUNG: Oh.
[CHUCKLES] It's not
happening anymore.
>>REGINA: Not your family.
Not happening anymore.
So you say that all
psychic phenomena
is a form of precognition?
>>CHEUNG: There is a
school of thought that's
heading in that direction.
And actually, it's the
term that scientists
use when they are
researching psychic ability.
It tends to be sort
of an umbrella term.
Yes, precognition
is where the future
of scientific research into
psychic abilities is going.
It's the most easy
to prove, as well.
Somebody can keep
a dream journal,
or have a waking
hunch, because that's
the same-- that's kind
of the daydreaming state,
and it plays out.
So you've got instant proof.
Right?
So it's the easiest to
test scientifically.
And what's exciting,
when it is being tested,
it's being shown that
time and time again,
the dreaming mind
just seems to sense
what's coming in the future.
But it's not
necessarily an event
that the dreaming mind sense.
It's an emotion,
as you were saying.
It's a mindset.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: And it's offering
you potential futures.
So what you're
dreaming mind will do
is it will showcase,
in my humble opinion,
potential futures.
And this is wonderful,
because if you wake up and you
don't like the
future it showcased,
your dreaming mind is-- again,
your best friend is saying,
look, right now, in the
here and now, you can--
>>REGINA: This is what you're--
>>CHEUNG: --change that.
>>REGINA: --signing
up for, so change it.
>>CHEUNG: Change it.
Course correct.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
>>CHEUNG: Again,
you're not a victim.
Your dreaming mind
will showcase,
and say, well, look,
if you continue
acting and thinking and feeling
the way you are right now,
this may be where you're
heading emotionally.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: Again, the dreaming
mind is so mysterious.
Occasionally, dreams
can be literal, too.
>>REGINA: Yeah, they can.
So the whole notion
that you can be awake--
kind of awake-- go
into a meditation
where you're not
asleep, but you also
have these similar experiences
of precognition of events
that are going to form.
First of all, for your
average person that's
relatively intuitive, just
dropping into an alpha
or delta state is sufficient
to have the equivalent of dream
time function?
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, daydreaming
is just another day to dream.
And people who are
struggling with dream recall.
And there are a lot of people,
sometimes, for medical reasons,
or because their life
is incredibly stressful,
dream recall takes a back seat.
And then, I always
say, day dream
is just another way to dream.
It's exactly the same.
You're just more conscious.
>>REGINA: And some
of it is almost--
then it slips over
the line almost
into, I guess you could say,
a type of remote viewing,
or a type of future viewing.
>>CHEUNG: And the way
to start triggering that
is to simply start taking
your dreams seriously.
Write them down.
It's going to be a
running theme for me.
>>REGINA: OK, you've said that.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
[CHUCKLES]
>>REGINA: You've mentioned that.
>>CHEUNG: Read lots, get
curious, spend time in nature,
listen to music that
inspires dream so much.
Because when you're
listening to music,
there's one part of
your brain that's
making sense of the notes.
That's the ego,
the consciousness.
And the other part of your
brain is free to daydream.
>>REGINA: Right, it occupies it.
>>CHEUNG: You get the
two walking in harmony.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CHEUNG: And that
actually is what
research is starting to show.
Because there are studies to
show that anxiety and stress
are the biggest enemy of
any kind of psychic ability.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>CHEUNG: And so what you
need to do is first of all,
be calm, and also
believe in yourself.
And get that balance,
again, between the material
and the intuitive.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to say.
That belief alone is huge.
Understanding you're
perfectly capable of this.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, of course.
Everybody.
>>REGINA: Everybody is capable.
Because I used to be surprised
where I'd go into those states
when I was out in the field here
and there, how accurate it was.
Like boom, boom,
boom, every night.
I was seeing what
was going to happen.
And I thought, well, that's
just because I gave myself
permission.
I normally wouldn't sit around
at night, out in the yard,
and do such a thing.
But we can.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: The point is we can.
And then you can recall
because you're not asleep.
>>CHEUNG: Well,
studies, again, show
what are the traits for people
who are psychic precognitive.
And the number one
trait is belief,
that they are psychic
and precognitive.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
acceptance of that.
>>CHEUNG: It's
You have to believe in it first.
And basically, believing
you are psychic
is exactly the same as
believing in yourself.
Because it means
you have the ability
to sense the right
decisions, to be empathetic,
to be intuitive and creative.
We all have that
to various degrees.
There are some
people who are born
with highly sensitive
potential, and they
tend to find intuition
and empathy much easier.
And then there are
people lower down
the scale who are more
logical, more rational.
But what I found fascinating is
that research shows that when
people who are lower
down the scale, just
do a simple course
of meditation,
it unlocks the part
of their brain--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>CHEUNG: --and they actually
get better psychic hits.
I call them psychic hits.
Because when the psychic
information comes through,
it's clearer.
The problem with people--
maybe you're like this, Regina.
I don't know.
If you're very highly intuitive,
you get so much information
coming in.
You don't know what's worth
running with, and what isn't.
What is too much.
>>REGINA: I tend to block it.
I tend to-- if I want
to know something,
I will actually clear
the slate, and ask.
And say, show me if
it's for me to see.
I will not watch the rest of it.
That's just like soup
all around all the time.
It's distracting.
So I don't just
randomly see things.
I choose to see.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, exactly.
So you've got that
logic going, as well.
You've got that ability.
>>REGINA: And then it's there.
>>CHEUNG: But some people
find it quite overwhelming,
that they get so many
messages, and they don't know.
Is this really psychic ability,
or is it wishful thinking,
or is it negative thinking?
I don't know.
>>REGINA: Right.
Are you just open and
seeing fields bleed through?
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
Yeah.
But what I'm trying
to say is, wherever
you are on the scale of psychic
sensitivity, you've got it.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah,
everybody can do it.
In fact, to validate your point,
at Stanford Research Institute,
the famous spy programs
under Russell Targ and such,
their top viewers had
seemingly-- not necessarily
any psychic ability to begin
with, and they trained them,
and they ended up-- a
couple of them being
some of the top seers ever.
And I know that they do this.
They train people who have no
background in psychic ability,
and other fields of
remote viewing as well.
So you're right.
It seems that it's
within everybody.
If you care to do it.
>>CHEUNG: Anyone who
dreams is psychic,
that's what I'm going to say.
If you have had a
dream, you will have,
at some point of your life, even
if you're, of course, not good
now, you will have--
as a child, if you--
the fact that you dream
shows that you are a
psychic being having
a human experience.
Because what on Earth is going
on in this surreal world?
>>REGINA: And you can't
make a lot of that stuff up.
>>CHEUNG: No.
[CHUCKLES]
>>REGINA: You're out somewhere.
You're bringing back something--
OK, let's talk about the past.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Is it possible--
since time and space
is non-linear, is it possible
that one can go into a dream
of the past and
effect healing that
flows through into the
present, or even the future?
>>CHEUNG: There are
studies, it's retrocausality
we're talking about here--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>CHEUNG: --where the future
can influence the past.
And of course, it can
happen in the dream state.
And I would encourage anyone.
A lot of us have grown up
with traumas and problems.
And going back to heal your
past self, your child self,
I would encourage that
both in the dream state
and in the waking
state, that you go back
and be the parent, the carer,
the nurturer to yourself
when you needed it most.
It's a very powerful
exercise to do that,
to reconnect to the
trauma of your past.
And it can happen in the
dream state, too, sometimes.
That's why we're pulled back
to childhood in our dreams.
It's our dreaming mind trying
to heal these bits of ourselves
that are broken, and doing
it in the only way it can.
But I would encourage
people to do
that if it's not too painful.
>>REGINA: Well if you
have an intention, right?
You have to set your
intention, this part of me I've
dreamt of before, I would
like to go back and find
reconciliation in
that period of time.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Right?
>>CHEUNG: But to make
this even more expansive,
just as you can go back
in time and be there
for yourself in the
past, you've created,
it's a living memory there.
You can also go in the future.
>>REGINA: That's
where I'm going next.
>>CHEUNG: We're going to have
our future selves hovering
around.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about that, and I'd
like to know for you,
personally, if you've
had some future self dreams.
Collectively--
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: Either
collectively or individually.
>>CHEUNG: Well, I tend to have
ones that are fairly trivial,
as I say, like the pink--
>>REGINA: Barbie.
>>CHEUNG: --Barbie one.
And I've had it when
I've done big interviews.
I had one recently where--
for the BBC, actually,
I had a dream
of a lead presenter
there, Nicky Campbell.
And I don't know why
I dreamt about him.
And then the following
morning, my radio in my car
wasn't working, and
I switched channel,
and it was "BBC 5 Live,"
and he was talking.
And he was saying
to his listeners--
it was when "Rings
of Power" came out--
I don't understand, why are
we all obsessed with elves,
and fairies, and fantasy?
I can't watch these things
like "Game of Thrones."
I don't understand it.
Is there anyone
listening who could just
text, call in, and
explain to me what
is this obsession with "Rings of
Power" and "Lord of the Rings,"
et cetera?
And of course, I am a
"Lord of the Rings" geek.
My podcast is called
"White Shores" in honor--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: Something said to
me, I'm following the dream.
I texted in, and
basically, it ended up
being the call of the week.
Because I was
instructing him about--
>>REGINA: Oh, I'm sure.
>>CHEUNG: And then a
few months later, he
invited me on to his podcast
for "BBC 5 Live," and all
about creativity and intuition.
And it was kind of like--
>>REGINA: You set
it up in advance.
>>CHEUNG: But I don't
mean-- he's not someone
that factors in my awareness.
I know who he is, but why
that presenter, and why--
>>REGINA: In your dream.
>>CHEUNG: So that's again kind
of leading me forward to a path
I needed to go.
And he found it very helpful.
He was very open-minded.
I mean, this is
the BBC, as well.
With dreamwork, they tend
to tie it in with sleep.
But they're getting much more
interested in dream decoding.
I've done quite a
lot for BBC radio.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you do a lot
on the media to the mainstream.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: So it shows the
times, times are changing.
Absolutely.
>>CHEUNG: When people
call in with a dream,
and I just try and help them in
a very gentle, non woo woo way,
how is this going
to help this person?
I'm always very aware
when someone calls in.
How what am I going to
say is going to help them?
And also, the people
listening at home,
how is it going to help
them interpret their dreams?
Can I give some basic
tools here, again,
to get them to fall in
love with their dreams,
a.k.a. themselves?
Because that's what
they don't realize,
they're dreaming themselves.
But I've also had
more difficult dreams
where I had a dream
of a childhood friend
I hadn't seen for years.
And in the dream, she
had butterfly wings.
It was very weird,
but dreams are weird.
I mean, crazier.
And I think it was
about a week later,
I found through a Facebook
feed, this friend was mentioned.
She had passed away in
a motorbike accident.
And it coincided about
the time of my dream.
Now that was very difficult.
Because a part of me
thought, well, should I have
reached out to this person,
and say, look,
I've dreamt of you?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CHEUNG: Or the family?
I left it because
this is too sensitive.
But things like that happen.
And I am actually starting
to get braver now.
When I dream of someone
out of the blue,
I make a conscious effort
to connect with them,
kind of live the dream.
I'll say it in a very
fun way, if the person
doesn't want to reply.
I had a dream about
you, are you OK?
What's going on?
>>REGINA: Yeah, you don't
have to say, and you died.
[CHUCKLES]
>>CHEUNG: No, no, no, no, no.
First of all, though,
I will look at why am I
dreaming up this person?
What is it about them?
What trait do I
need to integrate?
>>REGINA: Good point.
>>CHEUNG: Right, as well.
But if someone persistently
appears in my dreams,
and I can't work it out, I do
now start living the dream.
>>REGINA: And
reaching out to them.
>>CHEUNG: Reaching out.
>>REGINA: That's a good
message for all of us.
>>CHEUNG: It's a beautiful
thing to do, actually.
>>REGINA: You've
been on my mind.
I keep dreaming about you.
How are you?
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, yeah.
And it's a beautiful
thing to do.
And often, you will find, when
I have done this in the past,
that something is going on.
You've picked up on
something unconsciously.
And as I said, I would
encourage people to start--
but not the insane
Wondery or a serial killer
or the blood and gore.
That is just your dreaming
mind using shock, again,
because you've ignored--
>>REGINA: To get your attention.
>>CHEUNG: --it.
Yeah, it wants your attention.
And it knows that
blood and gore--
>>REGINA: It will
get your attention.
>>CHEUNG: --you're
going to think about it.
You're going to talk to
your friends about it.
You're going to go online.
You're going to search about it.
You're going to mull it over.
That's all your
dreaming mind wants.
It wants you to reflect.
>>REGINA: It wants
your attention.
You talk about, sometimes,
some methods for meeting
with your future
self in dream time.
>>CHEUNG: Oh, yes.
Well, one thing I'd
like people to do
is to think about themselves
watching the next episode,
the next guest.
Right?
Whoever that may be.
And to say hello to
that person right now.
Also go back in time and
think the episode previous
to this one.
Where were you?
Stand by yourself.
Give yourself a hug.
>>REGINA: And what is
the purpose of that?
>>CHEUNG: The purpose
of that is to give you
a sense that you are more
than just the here and now.
You are expansive across time.
And it is a wonderful
thing to know.
Because a lot of us,
sometimes, feel very alone.
And knowing that your future
self is there already--
I believe my future self.
I know when I go fly back in a
couple of days' time to the UK,
I will be reflecting
on this moment.
I will be back here.
So I'm already here.
So hello, Theresa.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CHEUNG: And it's a
lovely thing to do.
You never feel alone
because you know
that when you go into the
future, you create a memory.
What is it?
Lewis Carroll once said,
"It's a poor sort of memory
that only works backwards."
Your memory can work
forwards as well.
>>REGINA: Talking
about future memory.
>>CHEUNG: Future memory.
>>REGINA: And we're going
to get into that right
now, about what that
does to the brain.
Because you were telling me--
>>CHEUNG: Yes, I
found this research--
>>REGINA: --the brain--
yeah, tell us about it,
where the brain fires up in
a totally different way--
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: --if you
create a future memory.
>>CHEUNG: Well, actually, it's
called episodic future thinking
in scientific terms,
when they study it.
And what happens
is, when someone's
thinking about the
present, or the past,
they study what parts of
the brain are lighting up.
Then when somebody is
asked to take themselves
into the future, say, I want
you to now, two days from now,
where will you be,
what will you be doing?
The brain just goes wild.
>>REGINA: Because
it's in creative mode.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
It's highly creative, and
it's creating a living memory.
And it's been shown, this
is great for brain health.
It's great for mood regulation.
It's great for positive
thinking and helping
you believe in yourself,
and actually creating
this future self, at
the moment, the person
you want to be, the
person you aspire to be.
Your higher self, for
want of a better word.
It's a really powerful exercise.
I have visualized
this conversation,
and I hope it's playing out.
To make sure that--
sort of fill in.
So when I come, I'm kind
of filling in the blanks.
And as I say, research
shows it's very good news
for the brain.
>>REGINA: So the
antithesis would
have to be sitting around
and constantly thinking
about the past.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: The brain doesn't
light up in the same way.
>>CHEUNG: No, it doesn't.
>>REGINA: There's
nothing creative
about mulling over the past.
>>CHEUNG: Unless your future
self goes back into the past,
and gives your past a hug.
>>REGINA: Like what we
talked about earlier.
>>CHEUNG: We get the
whole brain activity.
This is--
>>REGINA: Reimagining
what happened
in the past to a higher outcome,
then you have it lighting up
again, right?
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: Like you just said,
because all the creativity is
there.
>>CHEUNG: It's a
future simulation.
And now, every day, I
greet my future self.
I say, hello, my old friend.
You're here already.
Because I know-- because I'm
a very reflective person,
I'm going to go
back and reflect.
I know I'm going to do that.
Similarly when I write
in my dream journal,
I know my future self, later
in the day or tomorrow,
is going to read it.
So I'm conscious that I'm
already present there,
across time.
But it's not-- you could say--
>>REGINA: It's different than
habitual dwelling in the past.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, very different.
And I just wanted you to
make the distinction--
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --the distinction
between the two.
>>CHEUNG: You go back in
the past to understand it,
and to be caring and
compassionate towards yourself,
and to be whatever you needed
to be to yourself at the time.
Because you were too young.
When you're young, you
haven't got the knowledge.
But when you get older, you
start getting the wisdom.
And you can go back and give
that young child your wisdom.
It's beautiful.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
You say, in fact,
it's a good exercise
to spin out in your mind where
you will be in three months
time, for example.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, so some people
would say, why waste your time?
It's just fantasy
and imagination.
>>CHEUNG: It's not, because--
I would urge people,
first of all,
to do it for tomorrow morning.
>>REGINA: Because
that's more predictable.
You kind of know what
you're going to do.
>>CHEUNG: Well, no.
Do things like, what time
am I going to wake up?
What will I be wearing?
>>REGINA: So guess what
time you might be waking up?
>>CHEUNG: Will it be
light or dark outside?
A series of questions, will
it be light or dark outside?
Will I be woken by
alarm or naturally?
You try these things, and
you write down your answer,
and see how accurate
you are over time.
But then do it like
three months in advance.
Because now, you're going
to have to-- your mind
is a bit like a simulator.
You've got to create a future.
Predict where it's going to be.
What you want to
see for yourself?
Be realistic, we live
in the material world.
You're not going to be a rocket
scientist in three months.
Be realistic, a scenario
that's doable, how will you be?
Write it down.
And then when that time comes,
just see how on point you are.
It's a very powerful--
>>REGINA: And then
go further out.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, keep
going further out.
And every time you do it, your
brain is loving you for it.
Your brain loves
episodic future thinking.
It's also a very
exciting way to live,
to know that your future
self is watching you.
And also, now knowing your
future self is watching you,
I want to impress my
future self right now.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CHEUNG: I want my future
to say, well done, Theresa.
You got the points across.
I want to do that.
Because studies again show that
people who are observed when
doing a task perform better.
You are being observed all the
time by your future memory.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>CHEUNG: That will
raise your game.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
very interesting.
And I really thank
you for bringing
that in, that the brain,
itself, has now been witnessed
in action in response to
these future pacing events,
these future memories.
It's starting to
really be upheld even
in the scientific realms now.
>>CHEUNG: Episodic
future thinking.
>>REGINA: And
that's what we want.
We want our brain to be
lit up because it also
keeps the brain alive.
It keeps your life moving
in unexpected wonderful
directions.
There's every reason to do it.
Where are you going
to be in three months?
What do you see?
[LAUGHING]
Back here, where?
Well, I see myself in
England next month,
and we'll have tea together.
>>CHEUNG: We will have tea.
I loved having tea.
We have cream tea.
And you put the cream on
first, and then the jam.
>>REGINA: And you
put the jam on first.
>>CHEUNG: Of course, that's the
logical way to do it, Regina.
Really.
>>REGINA: But see,
in the US, it usually
doesn't start with cream.
It starts with
butter, and then jam.
[LAUGHING]
OK, on that, I want
to thank you so much.
Any final thoughts besides, keep
a dream journal, absolutely?
>>CHEUNG: Final
thoughts is, most people
who are into dreamwork,
write down their dreams,
and then start
interpreting them.
But what they miss out on
is that third and vital step
is going back, and
looking back several weeks
behind to see if there's
any theme or pattern.
Now after this interview,
you know that your dreams
are potentially precognitive.
They have that ability to
showcase potential futures.
All you need is to go
back in your dream journal
and see one precognitive
hit, to know it's possible.
And when you know something's
possible, you can do it.
What you need to do is
you need to gather data.
You need to prove to yourself,
be like a citizen scientist,
that you are a
precognitive being having
a human experience.
And when you do
that, I guarantee,
your life will
never be the same.
>>REGINA: I agree.
Validation, self-validation,
is everything to opening up
your psychic powers.
I know years ago, I'd think,
oh, did I really see that?
As the years went on, with
each hit that was validated,
it got to where,
just relax, and then
it just flows in so much easier.
>>CHEUNG: It's that letting go.
Because when you
let go of things,
you open up for something
better new to come in.
Too many of us hold on to things
that we want, and try and force
things.
And by doing that, you're
blocking what is right for you
to come in.
>>REGINA: Have to let it go.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Beautiful message.
I think you've encouraged
a lot of people
to write down their dreams.
>>CHEUNG: And remember,
your dreams don't lie.
>>REGINA: Remember,
And validate yourself
because you're the exercise.
Loving yourself is the exercise.
>>CHEUNG: It is.
>>REGINA: Thank you
so much, Theresa.
It's wonderful to see you.
Theresa is a prolific
author on these topics.
And you can find
her newest book,
"Empower your Inner Psychic."
through major booksellers.
One of my favorites,
particularly
as a gift to someone wanting
to engage with dreams who's
new to it, is her
beautifully illustrated book,
"Night Vision."
I give that book to people.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]